\section{Scope}

This Working Group is to look into the Butler layer of the Data Management System \citedsp{LDM-148,LDM-463,LDM-152}.
It should start immediately (2017 August 4) and finish its remit by 2017 September 29.


\section{Responsibilities}

The Working Group (WG) has the following responsibilities:

\begin{itemize}
 \item Take input from a broad range of interested parties on the butler abstraction layer, and produce a document of Use Cases.
 \item Pin down the requirements in a written document \citedsp{LDM-556}.
 \item Rank butler requirements in terms of priority.
 \item The WG Chair shall convene meetings on a regular basis.
 \item The WG will make a recommendation as to whether a new Butler should be written, or whether the existing Butler code can be extended to meet the new requirements.
 \item Propose a plan for DM to achieve implementation of the Butler.
 \item The WG will draft a document proposing a conceptual design and implementation overview.
\end{itemize}

\section{Specific tasks}

\subsection{Draft requirements document(s)}

\citeds{LDM-556} defines all the middleware requirements, and is generated from the MagicDraw SysML model.
A section exists in \citeds{LDM-556} that will be populated with Butler requirements.
These requirements should carry priorities as used in \citeds{LSE-61}.

\subsection{Plan to go forward}

The path forward should be identified before the Working Group finishes.
This should include advice to the PM, based on consulation with the relevant T/CAMs, on the distribution of work among institutes (if any) and indication of individuals responsible for different components.

\subsection{Specific topics to be considered}

\begin{enumerate}
\item \textbf{Operational considerations}
The group must consider how to take care of operational constraints at NCSA.

\item \textbf{Data access}\label{da}
One major goal of Butler is to provide abstraction to data access -- that could be with multiple implementations.
How do developers access local data while allowing Condor jobs to access data on GPFS?

\item \textbf{Data format abstraction}
How do we hide from the pipelines user whether data are stored in HDF5 or FITS, or whether associated metadata is coming from a database or from a file, or whether composite datasets are coming from multiple locations?

\item \textbf{Data discovery}
This includes calibration logic and mappers -- the distinction between simple data access (see \ref{da}) and associating data items with each other should be made clear.

\item \textbf{Expansion of partial data IDs}
This must be well explained and pinned down for operations.

\item \textbf{Third-party instrument support}
How can we make it easier for others to use the stack and for LSST to process precursor datasets.

\item \textbf{Subset data staging}
How do we extract a subset of a dataset collection?
\end{enumerate}

\section{Membership}

Membership on the order of seven people is optimal.
The proposed membership is:

\begin{itemize}
  \item Tim Jenness \textbf{(Chair)},
  \item John Swinbank (observer),
  \item Colin Slater (UW),
  \item Jim Bosch (Princeton),
  \item Pim Schellart (Princeton),
  \item Michelle Gower (NCSA),
  \item Brian van Klaveren (SLAC),
  \item Simon Krughoff (SQuaRE; Tucson),
  \item Dominique Boutigny (LAPP; external observer),
  \item Te-Wei Tsai (Telescope \& Site; observer).
\end{itemize}

In addition K-T Lim is available as adviser.
SUIT will be represented by Gregory Dubois-Felsmann on an ad hoc basis.

\section{Reporting}

The WG Chair shall report directly to the DM Project manager weekly.
